RiscV_Arty2
-----------

A tiny RiscV embedded system on a Digilent Arty board.  This is a Xilinx
Vivado project utilizing my homebrew RiscV cpu (in git submodule RiscVToo)
and Xilinx IP for UART and GPIO peripherals.

In the RiscV_Arty2.srcs/sw_1/bootrom directory is some source code that
started out as a boot-rom but is really just "Hello World" that blinks
the LEDs and has a crude monitor that can peek and poke locations.

Building (Linux only)
---------------------
You need:
        + Xilinx Vivado that includes a Risc-V toolchain. (I'm using 2023.2)

Clone repository and submodule:

   git clone https://github.com/skibo/RiscV_Arty2
   cd RiscV_Arty2
   git submodule update --init

The $XILINX_VIVADO variable must point to your Xilinx Vivado directory.  (If
you are already running Vivado, this variable is already set by the
settings64.sh script.)

First, make the Vivado project:

   make project

At this point, you should be able to open up the project from within Vivado
and build the bitstream and program the Arty with the Hardware Manager.  But,
if you prefer, you can make the bitstream from the command line with this:

   make bitstream

Before programming the Arty with bitstream, you should have a serial console
running.  I use cu for my serial console:

   cu -l /dev/ttyUSB1 -s 115200

Then, program the board from the command line with this:

   make program

Modifying Firmware
------------------
If you make modifications to the bootrom firmware and recompile (in
RiscV_Arty2.srcs/sw_1/bootrom), the bitstream can be updated without
going through the whole synthesis and routing processes.  First, you
can create an MMI file with this:

   make mmi

This creates an XML file (bootrom.mmi) that the Xilinx tool "updatemem"
can use to reinstall the firmware in the bitstream.  It also creates an
"updaterom.sh" shell script which is convenient for updating the bitstream
with the new firmware.

Once the mmi file is created, you only need to run updaterom.sh  each time
you recompile the firmware.  Any time the bitstream is recreated, you'll
need to create a new bootrom.mmi file with "make mmi".

---
January, 2018	Updated: Jan, 2024
Thomas@Skibo.net
